ryu-book
========

The first release of Korean version has been made by Ian Y. Choi
(ian@naimnetworks.com), supported by NAIM Networks Inc. and OpenFlow Korea.

Welcome to join us to help Korean readers to more understand and study on Ryu.

This Korean version now supports HTML, EPUB and PDF formats.
To generate them, please read [README for this project](../../README.md).

## Additional notes for building Korean translated documents

Although kotex is more widely used in Korean, 
I configured to use XeLaTeX because kotex is not familiar for foreigners. 
I mainly refered to the configuration from @peteryui, 
who created Chinese version of this book.

Because using LaTeX to PDF generated by Sphinx do not support Korean by default
you need to install XeLaTeX to replace pdfLaTeX before you get the PDF file.

To build Korean documents on Ubuntu 16.04, you need to also install
the following packages:

* texlive-xetex: XeLaTeX
* texlive-lang-cjk: Language support for CJK (Chinese, Japanese, Korean)
* fonts-nanum: Korean font file (Open Font License 1.1)

If you would like to build in Mac OS X or macOS environment,
[MacTeX](https://tug.org/mactex/) is highly recommended. MacTeX will
install XeLaTeX by default. Also, changing fonts from "NanumGothic" to
"Apple SD Gothic Neo Medium" is recommended in
[source/conf.py](source/conf.py). Then, you will get a Korean PDF file
by executing "make latexpdfko".


For more information you can check the link below.
# http://osrg.github.io/ryu/resources.html#books
